Blog airbyte (#487)
smart-data-lake/smart-data-lake: blog/2022-03-30-SDL-airbyte/2022-03-30-SDL-airbyte.md

---
title: Using Airbyte connector to inspect github data
description: A short example using Airbyte github connector
slug: sdl-airbyte
authors:
  - name: Mandes Schönherr
    title: Dr.sc.nat.
    url: https://github.com/mand35

> tags: [SDL, Airbyte, Connector]

Reviewer: I would remove SDL as we could set that tag for every article we're going to write ;-)
```suggestion
tags: [Airbyte, Connector]
```

image: airbyte.png
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

This article presents the deployment of an [Airbyte Connector](https://airbyte.com) with Smart Data Lake Builder (SDLB). 
In particular the [github connector](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations/sources/github) is implemented using the python sources.

<!--truncate-->

> Airbyte is a framework to sync data from a variety of sources (APIs and databases) into warehouses and lakes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airbyte is a framework to sync data from a variety of sources (APIs and databases) into data warehouses and data lakes. 
```

In this example an Airbyte connector is utilized to stream data into Smart Data Lake (SDL). 
Therefore, the [Airbyte dataObject](http://smartdatalake.ch/json-schema-viewer/index.html#viewer-page?v=2-2) is used and will be configured. 
The general [Airbyte connector handling](https://docs.airbyte.com/understanding-airbyte/airbyte-specification#source) is implemented in SDL, which includes the 4 main steps:
* `spec`: receiving the specification of the connector
* `check`: validating the specified configuration
* `discover`: gather a catalog of available streams and its schemas
* `read`: collect the actual data

> The actual connector is not provided in the SDL repository and need to be obtained from the [Airbyte repository](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte). Beside the [list of existing connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations), custom connectors could be implemented in Python or Javascript. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The actual connector is not provided in the SDL repository and needs to be obtained from the [Airbyte repository](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte). Besides the [list of existing connectors](https://docs.airbyte.com/integrations), custom connectors could be implemented in Python or Javascript. 
```

* [SDL example](https://github.com/smart-data-lake/getting-started/archive/refs/heads/master.zip), download and unpack: 
  ```Bash
  git clone https://github.com/smart-data-lake/getting-started.git SDL_airbyte
  cd SDL_airbyte
  ```
* download the [Airbyte repository](https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte) 
  ```Bash
  git clone https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte.git
  ```
  Alternatively, only the target connector can be downloaded:
  ```Bash
  svn checkout https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/trunk/airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-github
  ```
  Here the Airbyte `airbyte/airbyte-integrations/connectors/source-github/` directory is copied into the `SDL_airbyte` directory for handy calling the connector.

## [Optional] Inspect the connector specification
The first connector command `spec` provides the connector specification. This is the basis to create a connector configuration. To run the connector as is, the Python `airbyte-cdk` package needs to be installed and the connector can be launched:

* Install Python airbyte-cdk: `pip install airbyte_cdk`
* try the connector: 
  ```Bash
  cd SDL_airbyte
  python source_github/main.py spec | python -m json.tool
  ```

>   This provides a [JSON string](github_spec_out.json) with the connector specification. The fields listed under `properties` are relevant for the configuration (compare with the configuration later used). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This provides a [JSON string](github_spec_out.json) with the connector specification. The fields listed under `properties` are relevant for the configuration (compare with the configuration  used later). 
```

## Configuration
To launch Smart Data Lake Builder (SDLB) with the Airbyte connector the following needs to be modified:

* add the Airbyte ***dataObject*** with its configuration to the `config/application.conf`:
  ```Python
  dataObjects {
    ext-commits {
      type = AirbyteDataObject
      config = {
        "credentials": {
          "personal_access_token": "<yourPersonalAccessToken>" ### enter your personal access token here
        },
        "repository": "smart-data-lake/smart-data-lake",
        "start_date": "2021-02-01T00:00:00Z",
        "branch": "documentation develop-spark3 develop-spark2",
        "page_size_for_large_streams": 100
      },
      streamName = "commits",
      cmd = {
        type = CmdScript
        name = "airbyte_connector_github"
        linuxCmd = "python3 /mnt/source-github/main.py"
      }
    }
  ...
    stg-commits {
     type = DeltaLakeTableDataObject
     path = "~{id}"
     table {
      db = "default"
      name = "stg_commits"
      primaryKey = [created_at]
      }
    }
  ```

>   The `ext-commits` defined connector settings. 

Reviewer: This sentence seems confusing. Could we say something like
```suggestion
  Note the options set for `ext-commits` which define the Airbyte connector settings. 
```

  The `streamName` selects the stream, exactly one. 
  If multiple streams should be collected, multiple dataObjects need to be defined. 
  In `linuxCmd` the actual connector script is called. 
  In our case we will mount the connector directory into the SDL container. 

* also add the definition of the data stream ***action*** to pipe the coming data stream into a `DeltaLakeTableDataObject`:
  ```Bash
    actions {
      download-commits {
        type = CopyAction
        inputId = ext-commits
        outputId = stg-commits
        metadata {
          feed = download
        }
      }
  ...
  ```
* Since Airbyte will be called as Python script in the sdl container, we need to (re-)build the container with Python support and the Python `airbyte-cdk` package. 
  Therefore, in the Dockerfile we add:
	```
	RUN \
  apt update && \
  apt --assume-yes install python3 python3-pip && \
  pip3 install airbyte-cdk~=0.1.25
  ```
  and rebuild 
  ```Bash
  podman build . -t sdl-spark
  ```

Now we are ready to go. My full [SDLB config file](application.conf) additionally includes the pull-request stream.

## Run and inspect results

> Since the data will be streamed into a `DeltaLakeTableDataObject` the metastore container is necessary. Further we aim to inspect the data using the Polynote notebook. Thus, first these containers are launched using (in the SDL example base directory):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the data will be streamed into a `DeltaLakeTableDataObject`, the metastore container is necessary. Further, we aim to inspect the data using the Polynote notebook. Thus, first these containers are launched using (in the SDL example base directory):
```

```

The output presents the successful run of the workflow:
```Bash
2022-03-16 07:54:03 INFO  ActionDAGRun$ActionEventListener - Action~download-commits[CopyAction]: Exec succeeded [dag-1-80]
2022-03-16 07:54:03 INFO  ActionDAGRun$ - exec SUCCEEDED for dag 1:
                 ┌─────┐
                 │start│
                 └───┬─┘
                     │
                     v
 ┌───────────────────────────────────────┐
 │download-commits SUCCEEDED PT11.686865S│
 └───────────────────────────────────────┘
     [main]
2022-03-16 07:54:03 INFO  LocalSmartDataLakeBuilder$ - LocalSmartDataLakeBuilder finished successfully: SUCCEEDED=1 [main]
2022-03-16 07:54:03 INFO  SparkUI - Stopped Spark web UI at http://localhost:4040 [shutdown-hook-0]
```

Launching Polynote `localhost:8192` in the browser, we can inspect data and develop further workflows. Here an example, where the commits are listed, which were committed in the name of someone else, excluding the web-flow. See [Polynote Notebook](SelectingData.ipynb)
![polynote example](polynote_commits.png)

## Summary

> The Airbyte connectors provide an easy access to a variety of data sources. The connectors can be utilized in SDLB with a few settings. Thus this maybe a handy solution for access even complex interfaces.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Airbyte connectors provide easy access to a variety of data sources. The connectors can be utilized in SDLB with just a few settings. This also works great for more complex interfaces.
```
